Meeting Minutes:

3/5/19
Agenda:
1. We need to define the big goal for Sprint 2
2. We need to get Ti and Shaina up to speed with the natural language compiler

Main Points:

- Ideally, we will use our visualization units (i.e. Dash) for debugging and audience views as we develop it.
The concept begins with this thought experiment: How do you solve a "word problem"?
You extract all the math terms from the context. You compute the raw math. Then, humans take the result and put it back into context.
Our interpreter will be an exercise in extracting computer terms from English. Then running them and outputting is the easy part.

- Well our program will need to keep tabs on different kinds of terms. As far as I can tell, this is what Part-Of-Speech tagging will do for us (although it's us that needs to work with it, lol)
We'll need to be creative about stitching these terms together meaningfully.
For example, perhaps you see a term which represents a function. How does the interpreter know where its arguments are, if any?
Well, much of that can be done by examining nearby parts of speech. I think in most cases, it's a safe assumption that verbs = functions (some action is being taken).
So then you examine things like adverbs and conjunctions and nouns to see what that function "call" is really supposed to be.

Question:
Are we looking to create a new high level language that is extremely close to natural language? Or are we looking to be able to extract meaning/solve problems from actual human sentences?

Answer:
The latter, all the way. The former gets you things like COBOL which are fascinating but ridiculously verbose. But, the difference between our idea and Alexa / Echo / etc is that they are designed to recognize a limited set of commands. i.e. They map English to common delegative tasks.
In the scope of a semester, we won't be able to make it function much beyond that (it'd basically be taking mathematical tasks in English), but we would design it to be extensible cross-language and arbitrary (not a limited, predefined set of instructions)

To Do:
Visualization:
- Take the instructions and used Dash's visualization abilities to show every possible interpretation of the statement given

Research:
- Research nltk context free grammar methods

https://textblob.readthedocs.io/en/dev/api_reference.html#textblob.blob.TextBlob.tags
https://www.clips.uantwerpen.be/pattern

